DBZ-7972 Debezium UI Update blogpost (#1050)
debezium/debezium.github.io: _posts/2024-08-05-Debezium-ui-update.adoc

---
layout: post
title:  Status of Debezium UI
date:   2024-08-05
tags: [ debezium, ui, features, kubernetes, operator, debezium-server ]
author: jcechace
---
# Status of Debezium UI

Hello everyone, Jakub here. You may have noticed that there wasn't much happening around Debezium UI lately. 

> This, however, would be only partially true. We own you an explanation in this regard, so please bare with me. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This, however, would be only partially true. We own you an explanation in this regard, so please bear with me. 
```

Let's start with the status of the **current** UI project. It became increasing clear that while UI
for Debezium is an important part of our vision, developing a UI strictly tied to Kafka Connect is 

> not the right direction. It was thus decied to freeze the development of the **current** web UI 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not the right direction. It was thus decided to freeze the development of the **current** web UI 
```

> project. Tere were two main reasons for this decision: 

Reviewer 2: s/Tere/There/

> project. Tere were two main reasons for this decision: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
project. There were two main reasons for this decision: 
```

> 1. The team doesn't have the bandwith (nor the desire) to develop a general purpose Kafka connector UI which would 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The team doesn't have the bandwidth (nor the desire) to develop a general purpose Kafka connector UI that would 
```

> be on part with some of the existign offerings (e.g. Lenses). So our UI would only ever be able to work with Debezium connectors specifically.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
be on par with some of the existing offerings (e.g. Lenses). So our UI would only ever be able to work with Debezium connectors specifically.
```

2. Debezium Server is gaining popularity and we would like to offer a user friendly way of managing this flavour of Debezium as well. 

> Unfortunetly, the deployment model of Debezium Server is very different from deploying Debezium as a connector. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, the deployment model of Debezium Server is very different from deploying Debezium as a connector. 
```

## What's Next?
As the previous paragraph mentioned the **current** UI, it's probably not a suprise that we did not give up on the idea. Part of the decision

> was to explore a possibility of creating a new UI which while still focused exlusively on Debezium would gradually support multiple deployment

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
was to explore a possibility of creating a new UI which while still focused exclusively on Debezium would gradually support multiple deployment
```

> was to explore a possibility of creating a new UI which while still focused exclusively on Debezium would gradually support multiple deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
was to explore a possibility of creating a new UI which, while still focused exclusively on Debezium, would gradually support multiple deployment
```

models. The idea is to start with Debezium Server deployed on Kubernetes, followed by bare metal deployment of Debezium Server.
At some point in the future we would like to cycle back to Kafka Connect and support also the deployment and operation of Debezium as Kafka
Connect connectors.

++++
<div class="imageblock centered-image">

>     <img src="/assets/images/2024-08-05-Debezium-ui-update/architecture.png" class="responsive-image" alt="Architecture">

Reviewer 3: Broken image

</div>
++++

## Designing the New UI

> One of the goals we defined for ourseves when designing the new platform was to simplify the understanding of what Debezium does.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One of the goals we defined for ourselves when designing the new platform was to simplify the understanding of what Debezium does.
```

> For this purpuse we are going to abstract away from the underlying deployment model. Instead of focusing on servers and connectors,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this reason, we are going to abstract away from the underlying deployment model. Instead of focusing on servers and connectors,
```

> we wan't to allow our users to think about Debezum in terms of data. Thus the new generation of the UI should operate with data pipelines

Reviewer 2: s/wan't/want/

> we want to allow our users to think about Debezum in terms of data. Thus the new generation of the UI should operate with data pipelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we want to allow our users to think about Debezium in terms of data. Thus the new generation of the UI should operate with data pipelines
```

> -- you define the source, the destination and any data transformations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-- you define the source, the destination, and any data transformations.
```

> These can be then composed into a deployable pipeline. Depending onthe target environment (Kafka Connect, Kubernetes, bare metal),

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These can be then composed into a deployable pipeline. Depending on the target environment (Kafka Connect, Kubernetes, bare metal),
```

> These can be then composed into a deployable pipeline. Depending on the target environment (Kafka Connect, Kubernetes, bare metal),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These can then be composed into a deployable pipeline. Depending on the target environment (Kafka Connect, Kubernetes, bare metal),
```

> an apropriate deployment will be used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
an appropriate deployment will be used.
```

++++
<div class="imageblock centered-image">
    <img src="/assets/images/2024-08-05-Debezium-ui-update/wireframe.png" class="responsive-image" alt="Initial Wireframe Design">
</div>
++++

> When pipeline is deployed to Kubernetes or bare metal machine

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When  pipeline is deployed to a Kubernetes or a bare metal machine
```

> When  pipeline is deployed to a Kubernetes or a bare metal machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When pipeline is deployed to a Kubernetes or a bare metal machine
```

- The Source is the configuration of the Debezium Source connector
- Transformations are the usual SMTs

> - The Destination coresponds to the configuration of DS's Sink.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The Destination coresponds to the configuration of Debezium Server's Sink.
```

When pipeline is deployed to Kafka Connect

- The Source is the configuration of the Debezium Source connector
- Transformations are the usual SMTs

> - The destination is always Kafka topic 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The destination is always a Kafka topic 
```

> In future, we could also allow our JDBC and MongoDB sink connectors to be used as a destination, allowing for truly end-to-end defined pipelines

Reviewer 2: *In future* -> *In the future* ?

> In the future, we could also allow our JDBC and MongoDB sink connectors to be used as a destination, allowing for truly end-to-end defined pipelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the future, we could also allow our JDBC and MongoDB sink connectors to be used as destinations, allowing for truly end-to-end defined pipelines
```

> when Kafka Connect is targetted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
when Kafka Connect is targeted.
```

## Where Do We Stand Right Now

> We are at the begingin of this journey. Nevetheless, there is a rought PoC prototype ready for you to https://github.com/debezium/debezium-platform-conductor/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#running-the-compose-kind-kafka-example[examine].

Reviewer 2: s/begingin/beginning/

> We are at the begingin of this journey. Nevetheless, there is a rought PoC prototype ready for you to https://github.com/debezium/debezium-platform-conductor/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#running-the-compose-kind-kafka-example[examine].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We are at the begining of this journey. Nevetheless, there is a rough PoC prototype ready for you to https://github.com/debezium/debezium-platform-conductor/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#running-the-compose-kind-kafka-example[examine].
```

> As already briefly mentiond, initially the plan is to target only Kubernetes as supported deployment environment, more specifically

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As already briefly mentioned, initially the plan is to target only Kubernetes as supported deployment environment, more specifically
```

Debezium Server on Kubernetes. This choice allows us to take an advantage of our Debezium Operator.

++++
<div class="imageblock centered-image">

>     <img src="/assets/images/2024-08-05-Debezium-ui-update/screenshot_list_destionations.png" class="responsive-image" alt="Screenshot: Destination types list">

Reviewer 3: Broken image

</div>
++++

We intend to introduce configuration and feature support gradually. Thus the configuration is deliberately opinionated and

> simplistic -- currently all pipelines can only use ephemeral storages. In this early version all configuration properties also
> must be set a simple key-value pairs. This will change, as the next step we intend to provide auto-completion for property names,
> and ultimately fully specialised forms will be rendered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simplistic -- currently all pipelines can only use ephemeral storage. In this early version, you must also set all configuration properties as simple key-value pairs. We intend to change this in the future, and as a next step, you can look forward to auto-completion of property names,
and ultimately, fully specialized forms will be rendered.
```

++++
<div class="imageblock centered-image">

>     <img src="/assets/images/2024-08-05-Debezium-ui-update/screenshot_create_source.png" class="responsive-image" alt="Screenshot: Create new source">

Reviewer 3: Broken image

</div>
++++

> You can review the curent status of the codebase on Github

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can review the current status of the codebase on GitHub:
```

> - https://github.com/debezium/debezium-platform-conductor/[Debezium Platform Cundoctor (Backend)]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- https://github.com/debezium/debezium-platform-conductor/[Debezium Platform Conductor (Backend)]
```

- https://github.com/debezium/debezium-platform-stage/[Debezium Platform Stage (Frontend)]

## We need your help!

> At the end of this short report, we would like to ask to try this early PoC and let us know your opinion.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At the end of this short report, we would like to ask you to try this early PoC and let us know your opinion.
```

We would especially appreciate if you could let as know your answers to the following questions:

> - What featers are a must for you?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- What features are a must for you?
```
